Assignment 02: RESTful Services

**Introduction to Service Design and Engineering | University of Trento |** 

**Name:** Rodrigo Sestari

**Description:**

In this assignment is implemented a server and a client calling this server. 
The server was deployed on Heroku **https://rodrigo-sestari.herokuapp.com/assignment2**.
Instead the client was implemented to call Heroku server. 





**Code:**

* **src/introsde.rest.client.json:** Client Json
* **src/introsde.rest.client.xml:** Client Xml
* **src/introsde.rest.ehealth:** Standalone HTTP Server
* **src/introsde.rest.ehealth.dao:** Classe DAO "data access object"
* **src/introsde.rest.ehealth.bean:** Classes to manage the mapping operation.
* **src/introsde.rest.ehealth.model:**   Classes to represent your domain model.
* **src/introsde.rest.ehealth.resources:** will include the *resources* that are exposed throught the RESTful API, which can be seen as the controllers that receive requests and respond with a representation of the resources that are requested  
* **client-server-*.log:** Log generated by request Json/Xml by client
* **doc:** JavaDoc






**Tasks Server:**


* **Request #1:** GET /person should list all the people (see above Person model to know what data to return here) in your database (wrapped under the root element "people")
* **Request #2:** GET /person/{id} should give all the personal information plus current measures of person identified by {id} (e.g., current measures means current health profile)
* **Request #3**: PUT /person/{id} should update the personal information of the person identified by {id} (e.g., only the person's information, not the measures of the health profile)
* **Request #4:** POST /person should create a new person and return the newly created person with its assigned id (if a health profile is included, create also those measurements for the new person).
* **Request #5:** DELETE /person/{id} should delete the person identified by {id} from the system
Request #6: GET /person/{id}/{measureType} should return the list of values (the history) of {measureType} (e.g. weight) for person identified by {id}
* **Request #7:** GET /person/{id}/{measureType}/{mid} should return the value of {measureType} (e.g. weight) identified by {mid} for person identified by {id}
* **Request #8:** POST /person/{id}/{measureType} should save a new value for the {measureType} (e.g. weight) of person identified by {id} and archive the old value in the history
* **Request #9:** GET /measureTypes should return the list of measures your model supports in the following formats:

 ```
<measureTypes>
    <measureType>weight</measureType>
    <measureType>height</measureType>
    <measureType>steps</measureType>
    <measureType>bloodpressure</measureType>
</measureTypes>
```
```
{
   "measureType": [
      "weight",
      "height",
      "steps",
      "bloodpressure"
    ]
}

```

**Tasks Client:**

* **Step 1.** Print URL of the server you are calling (the server should be deployed on Heroku. It should be a URL of your partner student or of your own server if you work alone)
* **Step 2.** For each of of requests in the plan of Step 3, including extras, you have to send the request first with the Accept and Content-type (for POST/PUT requests) headers both set to Applicaiton/XML and then both set to Application/JSON. After getting the response, print the following in the console.

* **Step 3.1.** Send R#1 (GET BASE_URL/person). Calculate how many people are in the response. If more than 2, result is OK, else is ERROR (less than 3 persons). Save into a variable id of the first person (first_person_id) and of the last person (last_person_id)
* **Step 3.2.** Send R#2 for first_person_id. If the responses for this is 200 or 202, the result is OK.
* **Step 3.3.** Send R#3 for first_person_id changing the firstname. If the responses has the name changed, the result is OK.
* **Step 3.4.** Send R#4 to create the following person. Store the id of the new person. If the answer is 201 (200 or 202 are also applicable) with a person in the body who has an ID, the result is OK.
  ```
  {
          "firstname"     : "Chuck",
          "lastname"      : "Norris",
          "birthdate"     : "1945-01-01"
          "healthProfile" : {
                    "weight"  : 78.9,
                    "height"  : 172
          }
    }
```
* **Step 3.5.** Send R#5 for the person you have just created. Then send R#1 with the id of that person. If the answer is 404, your result must be OK.
* **Step 3.6.** Follow now with the R#9 (GET BASE_URL/measureTypes). If response contains more than 2 measureTypes - result is OK, else is ERROR (less than 3 measureTypes). Save all measureTypes into array (measure_types)
* **Step 3.7.** Send R#6 (GET BASE_URL/person/{id}/{measureType}) for the first person you obtained at the beginning and the last person, and for each measure types from measure_types. If no response has at least one measure - result is ERROR (no data at all) else result is OK. Store one measure_id and one measureType.
* **Step 3.8.** Send R#7 (GET BASE_URL/person/{id}/{measureType}/{mid}) for the stored measure_id and measureType. If the response is 200, result is OK, else is ERROR.
* **Step 3.9.** Choose a measureType from measure_types and send the request R#6 (GET BASE_URL/person/{first_person_id}/{measureType}) and save count value (e.g. 5 measurements). Then send R#8 (POST BASE_URL/person/{first_person_id}/{measureTypes}) with the measurement specified below. Follow up with another R#6 as the first to check the new count value. If it is 1 measure more - print OK, else print ERROR. Remember, first with JSON and then with XML as content-types
```
   <measure>
            <value>72</value>
            <created>2011-12-09</created>
   </measure>
```       


**How to run:**

Running the project requires java and ant.

Ant source file build.xml is annotated. 
* Main targets are:
* **execute.client:** Evaluation Client.The server is: **https://rodrigo-sestari.herokuapp.com/assignment2**. 
* **start:** To start the local server.





**References:**

https://sites.google.com/a/unitn.it/introsde_2015-16/lab-sessions/assignments/assignment-2

